Add documentation for the @defer support (#4352)
apollographql/apollo-kotlin: docs/source/fetching/defer.mdx

---
title: @defer support
---

> > ⚠️ **Defer support is experimental and subject to change.** If you have feedback on it, please let us know via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-android/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&template=bug_report.md&title=[Defer%20Support]) or in the [Kotlin Slack community](https://slack.kotl.in/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ⚠️ **Defer is a [Stage 1 GraphQL specification proposal](https://github.com/graphql/graphql-spec/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#stage-1-proposal).** Before it reaches acceptance, it might still change in backward incompatible ways. If you have feedback on it, please let us know via [GitHub issues](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-android/issues/new?assignees=&labels=Type%3A+Bug&template=bug_report.md&title=[Defer%20Support]) or in the [Kotlin Slack community](https://slack.kotl.in/).
```

Author: Merging this - we can still tweak the wording on the docs PR if needed

```graphql
query PersonQuery($personId: ID!) {
  person(id: $personId) {
    # Basic fields (fast)
    id
    firstName
    lastName
    
    # Friends (slow)
    ... on User @defer {
      friends {
        id
      }
    }
  }
}
```

In the generated code for this query, the `onUser` field for the fragment will be nullable. That is because when the initial payload is received from the server, the fields of the fragment are not yet present. A `Person` will be emitted with only the basic fields filled in.

When the fields of the fragment are available, a new `Person` will be emitted, this time with the `onUser` field present and filled with the fields of the fragment.

```kotlin
apolloClient.query(PersonQuery(personId)).toFlow().collect {
  println("Received: $it")
  if (it.dataAssertNoErrors.person.onUser == null) {
    // Initial payload: basic info only
    // ...
  } else {
    // Subsequent payload: with friends
    // ...
  }
}
```

Will print something like this:

```
Received: Person(id=1, firstName=John, lastName=Doe, onUser=null))
Received: Person(id=1, firstName=John, lastName=Doe, onUser=OnUser(friends=[Friend(id=2), Friend(id=3)]))
```

> Note: currently, `@defer` can be used only with the [the `operationBased` codegen](../advanced/response-based-codegen/).

Reviewer: I don't think we'll ever support this on `responseBased` codegen. In all cases, I'd remove the "currently" that might hint that we could

```suggestion
Note: `@defer` can be used only with the [the `operationBased` codegen](../advanced/response-based-codegen/).
```

Author: Good point!
